---
title: 1
layout: layouts/section.md
section: /cs
---
1.01 - 8.01

I've had finishing the [FastAI book](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook) on my todo list since I received a hard copy at the beginning of September 2020: so I'm dedicating the first few weeks of this year (before the semester officially starts at Brown) to work through it entirely.

Picking up from where I've left off, I worked through **chapters 7-12**, coming to the end of Part II. This takes me to the beginning of the 'deep dive' sections, in which the more detailed logics of particular models are unpacked.

Up until this point, it's been applications and the basic theory that is necessary to work practically with FastAI `Learner`s-- what sort of data goes in, how it comes out, and what components are needed to create one. I haven't _really_ worked practically with fastai yet; the idea of using it is speculative in mtriage workflows at FA. Before I can really get to the art of training models, I need to put all the pieces in place to deploy a model in a format that's useful for the task of identifying objects in public domain media, which is via [mtriage](https://github.com/forensic-architecture/mtriage).

This week is also the holding period of my impending departure from Berlin (to return to covid-free New Zealand!); and so I spent some time setting up an SSH tunnel for my office computer so that I can access it remotely. This means I get a dedicated RTX 3080, 3TB storage, and 16 cores of AMD CPU that are accessible via a Jupyter notebook, so I think it was worth the configuration science.

Depending on how my other work goes (a chapter draft is due on the 15th Jan), I may skip next week and pick up with proceedings the week after.
